Automated Wordpress Install with Nginx Script
#############################################
:date: 2011-06-04 19:20
:author: Josh
:category: Articles
:tags: nginx, Ubuntu, Wordpress
:slug: automated-wordpress-install-with-nginx-script

It is a pain to follow my own tutorial over and over for each domain.
So I automated it! This script is tested ONLY on the official Ubuntu
10.04 32 bit AMI in a tiny instance, following the install instructions
. I have yet to test it anywhere else, but if it works for you, please
leave a comment at the bottom with your configuration. Also, if any Bash
gurus have tips for the script, your input would be very much
appreciated.

This script creates a new user for the website and creates a home
directory on the mounted EBS volume to host the site. Then it creates a
new pool configuration, to give the site more secure execution. After
that, it creates a new virtual host in nginx, to tell the server how to
deal with the new site. It creates a MySQL user and database. Finally,
it downloads Wordpress, and installs it into the web directory, and
configures almost everything. When you visit the domain, you will be
asked for the site title, admin user (for the blog) and password, and
you email. After that, your blog is running!!

If you want to get the latest version of this script, you can `download
it here`_. I will post the current (very rough) script here, for
posterity's sake. It has basically no error checking, and probably isn't
very portable. It also exclusively works with nginx, PHP5-fpm, and
MySQL, though this should be easy to fix. This script also requires a
few template files, which are included at the bottom, and at the Github
site.

**Note:**\ You will need the file /root/mysql with the root password on
the first line and nothing else. You should run "chmod 600 /root/mysql"
to ensure no one can read the root password.

.. code-block:: bash

    #!/bin/bash
    VHOST_DIR='/etc/nginx/sites-available'
    USER_DIR='/ebs/www'
    USERNAME=''
    USERPASS=''
    DOMAIN=''
    MSYQLPASS=''
    USER_TRUNC=''
    DOMAIN_TRUNC=''
    DB_PASS=''

    RET=''
    function sanity_check {
     if [ "$(id -u)" != "0" ]; then
     echo "Script must be run as root."
     exit 1
     fi
     if [[ $1 != 2 ]]; then
     echo $1
     echo "Usage: nginx-vhost.sh username example.com"
     exit 4
     fi

     egrep "^$USERNAME:" /etc/passwd >/dev/null
     if [ $? -eq 0 ]; then
     echo "$USERNAME exists!"
     exit 3
     fi

    }

    function password {
     RET=$(cat /dev/urandom | tr -cd [:alnum:] | head -c ${1:-16})
    }

    function setup_user {
     useradd -m -d $USER_DIR/$USERNAME -U $USERNAME

     password
     PASSWORD=$RET
     echo "$USERNAME:$PASSWORD" | chpasswd

     mkdir -p $USER_DIR/$USERNAME/$DOMAIN/htdocs
     mkdir $USER_DIR/$USERNAME/$DOMAIN/logs
     touch $USER_DIR/$USERNAME/$DOMAIN/logs/access.log
     touch $USER_DIR/$USERNAME/$DOMAIN/logs/error.log
     chown -R $USERNAME $USER_DIR/$USERNAME
     chgrp -R $USERNAME $USER_DIR/$USERNAME

     echo "Create user: $USERNAME with password: $PASSWORD"
    }
    function php_pool {
     if [ ! -f /etc/php5/fpm/port ]; then
     echo "Cannot access /etc/php5/fpm/port"
     exit 2
     fi

     # Grab the port from file, and increment.
     PORT=$(cat /etc/php5/fpm/port)
     echo $(($PORT + 1)) > /etc/php5/fpm/port

     cp /etc/php5/fpm/pool.template /etc/php5/fpm/pools/$DOMAIN
     sed -i "s|example.com|$DOMAIN|" /etc/php5/fpm/pools/$DOMAIN

     sed -i "s|PORT|$PORT|" /etc/php5/fpm/pools/$DOMAIN
     sed -i "s|user = example|user = $USERNAME|" /etc/php5/fpm/pools/$DOMAIN
     sed -i "s|group = example|group = $USERNAME|" /etc/php5/fpm/pools/$DOMAIN
     echo "Added $DOMAIN to the PHP pool"
    }
    function nginx_vhost {
     cp /etc/nginx/vhost.template /etc/nginx/sites-available/$DOMAIN
     sed -i "s|example.com|$DOMAIN|g" /etc/nginx/sites-available/$DOMAIN
     sed -i "s|username|$USERNAME|g" /etc/nginx/sites-available/$DOMAIN
     sed -i "s|PORT|$PORT|g" /etc/nginx/sites-available/$DOMAIN
     # Should probably sed through and replace /ebs/www with $USER_DIR

     # Enable the site
     ln -s /etc/nginx/sites-available/$DOMAIN /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/$DOMAIN
     echo "Enabled $DOMAIN in the web server"
    }
    function server_reload {
     /etc/init.d/php5-fpm reload
     /etc/init.d/nginx reload
     echo "Servers reloaded"
    }
    function prepare_mysql {
     # Generate dbuser password
     password
     DB_PASS=$RET

     # Truncate username (15 chars max) and dbname (63 chars max)
     USER_TRUNC=$(echo $USERNAME | cut -c1-15)

     # This should be a separate user with only create perms.
     echo "CREATE DATABASE $USER_TRUNC;
    GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON $USER_TRUNC.* to '$USER_TRUNC'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY '$DB_PASS';" > $USERNAME.sql
     mysql -u root -p$(cat /root/mysql) < $USERNAME.sql
     rm $USERNAME.sql
     echo "Created MySQL user: $USER_TRUNC password: $DB_PASS database: $DOMAIN_TRUNC"
    }
    function install_wordpress {
     wget http://wordpress.org/latest.tar.gz
     tar xf latest.tar.gz
     mv wordpress/* $USER_DIR/$USERNAME/$DOMAIN/htdocs/
     cp $USER_DIR/$USERNAME/$DOMAIN/htdocs/wp-config-sample.php $USER_DIR/$USERNAME/$DOMAIN/htdocs/wp-config.php
     sed -i "s|database_name_here|$USER_TRUNC|g" $USER_DIR/$USERNAME/$DOMAIN/htdocs/wp-config.php
     sed -i "s|username_here|$USERNAME|g" $USER_DIR/$USERNAME/$DOMAIN/htdocs/wp-config.php
     sed -i "s|password_here|$DB_PASS|g" $USER_DIR/$USERNAME/$DOMAIN/htdocs/wp-config.php

     # Add in salts from the wordpress salt generator
     wget https://api.wordpress.org/secret-key/1.1/salt/
     sed -i "s/|/a/g" index.html
    # cat index.html | while read line; do
     # sed -i "s|define('.*',.*'put your unique phrase here');|$line|" $USER_DIR/$USERNAME/$DOMAIN/htdocs/wp-config.php
    # sed 1d $USER_DIR/$USERNAME/$DOMAIN/htdocs/wp-config.php
    # done
     sed -i '/#@-/r index.html' $USER_DIR/$USERNAME/$DOMAIN/htdocs/wp-config.php
     sed -i "/#@+/,/#@-/d" $USER_DIR/$USERNAME/$DOMAIN/htdocs/wp-config.php
     rm index.html
     rm latest.tar.gz

     # Add in FTP stuff, even though that's not defined yet..

     # Own these new files
     chown -R $USERNAME $USER_DIR/$USERNAME/$DOMAIN/htdocs/*
     chgrp -R $USERNAME $USER_DIR/$USERNAME/$DOMAIN/htdocs/*
     # Make sure no one else can read this file
     chmod 700 $USER_DIR/$USERNAME/$DOMAIN/htdocs/wp-config.php

     #echo "Wordpress for $DOMAIN installed."
     #echo "Visit http://$DOMAIN/wp-admin/install.php to complete installation"
    }

    ##############################################################################
    # Start of program
    USERNAME=$1
    DOMAIN=$2

    sanity_check $#
    setup_user
    php_pool
    nginx_vhost
    server_reload
    prepare_mysql
    install_wordpress
    exit 0


Here is the PHP pool template. You can modify this to give all your
sites a different default.

.. code-block:: bash

	nano /etc/php5/fpm/pool.template
	--

    [example.com]
	listen = 127.0.0.1:PORT # Increase this for each pool
	user = example
	group = example
	pm = dynamic
	pm.max\_children = 5
	pm.start\_servers = 1
	pm.min\_spare\_servers = 1
	pm.max\_spare\_servers = 2



You will also have to create a file that contains the next available
port number for FastCGI so nginx can communicate with PHP5-FPM.

.. code-block:: bash

	nano /etc/php5/fpm/port
	--
	9001



Lastly, we need an nginx vhost template. This is where you can do a ton
of customization, according to the nginx documents. This template is
great for running Wordpress. I don't know how well it would run other
PHP projects, but it can certainly be customized to make them work.

.. code-block:: bash

	nano /etc/nginx/vhost.template
    --

    server {
      listen 80;
      server_name example.com;
      access_log /ebs/www/username/example.com/logs/access.log;
      error_log /ebs/www/username/example.com/logs/error.log;
      root /ebs/www/username/example.com/htdocs;

      location / {
        index index.php index.html index.htm;
        location ~ \.php$ {
            fastcgi_pass 127.0.0.1:PORT; # Increase this for each pool
            fastcgi_index  index.php;
            fastcgi_param  SCRIPT_FILENAME    /ebs/www/username/example.com/htdocs$fastcgi_script_name;  # same path as above
            fastcgi_param PATH_INFO               $fastcgi_script_name;
            include /etc/nginx/fastcgi_params;
        }
        # Static files
        if (-f $request_filename) {
          expires 30d;
          break;
        }
        if (!-e $request_filename) {
          rewrite ^(.+)$ /index.php?q=$1 last;
        }
      }
    }
    --


That's it! Again, if this works for you or if you have a problem, please
leave a comment with your configuration! It will help me improve the
script for everyone. That's what open source is all about right?

.. _download it here: https://github.com/pcsforeducation/Sysadmin-scripts/tree/master/nginx-vhost
