Building a Web Server on Amazon’s EC2
#####################################
:date: 2010-11-16 19:54
:author: Josh
:category: Articles
:tags: EC2, Ubuntu
:slug: building-a-web-server-on-amazons-ec2

Look at any Wiki, like Wikipedia. Pretty standard right? They all run
MediaWiki, a software installable in most shared hosting sites, like
my\ `Dreamhost`_ account. However, try writing articles for them.  I
personally find it to be a cumbersome process, both to set up, use, and
write for.  Luckily, a few months ago, I heard an \ `FLOSS Weekly`_
podcast about a fork from MediaWiki, called Mindtouch.  Their product
seemed really nice, with awesome extensions and collaborative features,
so I figured I’d give them a try.  My first major roadblock was that you
cannot just run Mindtouch on any old shared hosting account.  You need
at least a Virtual Private Server (also available through Dreamhost for
an extra fee), or a full on Dedicated Server (much more expensive).
 After comparing all the possibilities, I decided the best bet was
Amazon’s EC2 service.  I’ve used it a few times and it’s always been
extremely responsive, fairly easy to work with, and you only pay for
what you use, instead of a monthly cost.  They also have a multitude of
tools available to help you dynamically scale your infrastructure, so if
one day you get a ton of hits, you can just fire up a few more web
servers, and you’ll be golden.  I couldn’t find very much documentation
on how to do this (besides the normal web server set up guides), so here
is my tutorial!

**Amazon EC2**

`Amazon’s Elastic Compute Cloud`_\ (EC2) is a service that lets you
launch Amazon Machine Images (AMI’s), which are modified Xen Virtual
Machines.  In essence, it lets you start and stop a virtual server
running on their infrastructure, that acts almost identical to any other
server, but with a supremely fast Internet connection (I’ve hit around
100Mbps to other servers for download speed).  One big difference is the
main root of the drive is reset every time you terminate the instance
(though it survives reboots).  Therefore, we need to attach
an \ `Elastic Block Store`_ (EBS) drive to make sure our data survives
outages and the like.  Then we are going to use symlinks to have the
data maintained on the EBS volume, but without changing tons of
configuration files.

If you don’t have an EC2 account, now would be a \ `good time to
start`_. Once you do, sign into the \ `management console`_, and go to
these tabs on the left hand side to prepare your web server.

**Security Groups**

First off, we are going to create a Security Group.  Security Groups are
ports that are opened through Amazon’s firewall and directed at your AMI
instance.  You can restrict the IP range, or leave it at 0.0.0.0/0 to be
publicly available.  The drop down menu on the left provides a lot of
pre-configured services.  I choose SSH (required if you want to
administrate the server) and HTTP (for serving over the web).  Ideally,
I should restrict SSH to my IP range, but I have a dynamic IP at home,
often control it from my phone (another dynamic IP) and work (2 set
ranges of IP’s).  Maybe in a future article!

**Key Pairs**

If you’ve only used password-based SSH, or never used SSH, this may be
an odd way to do it, but it is far more secure than password-based
logins.  When you create a new keypair, Amazon downloads a .pem file
(also called an identity file) to your computer.  It also creates
another file and stores it away in the web interface for making your own
AMI’s but we’ll cover that later.  Any time you want to connect to your
server, all you have to do is append “-i KEYPAIRNAME.pem” right after
“ssh” from the terminal and before the host name.  You can also insert
it into Putty if you’re a Windows user.

**Volumes (EBS)**

We need a place to store the files that need to survive shutting down
the machine.  Create a volume, but be generous.  Currently you can’t
grow a volume while it is running, so you will have to take down your
site momentarily to create more space, or start spreading data over
multiple volumes, which may undesirable. At $0.10/GB a month, grabbing
an extra GB of space isn’t going to break the bank, but could definitely
save you some downtime.

**Launch an Instance**

For this example, I choose an Ubuntu Lucid Lynx 32 bit AMI.  Lucid Lynx
will be supported as a server OS for the next 5 years, which will help
me keep the reconfigurations to a minimum.  I also choose the official
image released by the Ubuntu folks, however, the AMI’s by Eric Hammond
at \ `Alestic.com`_ have been exceedingly nice, too (and often quicker
to get bug fixes). The instance ID (when writing this) is
ami-2d4aa444 with
“ubuntu-images-us/ubuntu-lucid-10.04-i386-server-20100427″ as the
manifest. Once you hit launch, Amazon will process you request, and your
new server should be up and running in a minute or two.

**Configuration**

As soon as your instance’s status changes to “running” you can connect
to it with SSH/Putty.  Checkbox the instance you want to connect to, and
select “Connect” from the Instance Actions dropdown.  Copy the
information into the terminal, but be sure to change the username from
“root” to “ubuntu”.

The first thing to do is to get Ubuntu up to date (I would run “sudo su”
to become root first, otherwise append sudo to the commands)

.. code-block:: bash

	apt-get -y update && apt-get -y upgrade



Then kick back and let it update from the Ubuntu mirrors running also on
EC2 (for best performance and no-cost downloading, since it is all
within EC2, or at the very worst minimal cost). First, let’s get our
directories in order format the disk.

.. code-block:: bash

	mkdir /ebs
	#Run through this, or look at how to automate it in the attached script
	fdisk /dev/sdf  

    For fdisk, use “l” to list the partitions, “d” to destroy a partition,
    “n” to make a new partition, and “w” to write the configuration to the
    disk. Unless you need a unique configuration, just accept all the
    defaults to make one partition on the whole disk. Now we need to format
    the drive. I prefer EXT4, though you may want XFS for various
    applications.  Then we will mount it.

	mkfs -t ext4 /dev/sdf1
	mount -t ext4 $EBSPART /ebs>
	mkfs -t ext4 /dev/sdf1  mount -t ext4 $EBSPART /ebs
	

In my script, I use the Linux command “sed” to edit all the users on the
system to prevent any from being able to login to a shell.  This should
provide some additional security. Next, we need to start installing all
the packages that will run our server.  We’re going to break them down
into groups, so they are easier to understand, and the script will be
easier to maintain. First we are going to make sure there will be
prompts throughout the process, then add the multiverse Ubuntu
repository and MindTouch repsoitory, so all of our packages are
accessible, then update our package lists.

.. code-block:: bash

	export DEBIAN\_FRONTEND=noninteractive
	sed -ie ‘s\_deb http://us-east-1.ec2.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ lucid main universe\_deb http://us-east-1.ec2.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ lucid main universe multiverse\_g’ /etc/apt/sources.list
	echo ‘deb http://repo.mindtouch.com xUbuntu\_10.04/’ >> /etc/apt/sources.list
	apt-get update
	

Now let’s start the packages. First we will get required utilities for
other packages and MindTouch.

.. code-block:: bash

	apt-get -y install fail2ban binutils cpp fetchmail flex gcc libarchive-zip-perl libc6-dev libcompress-zlib-perl libdb4.6-dev libpcre3 libpopt-dev lynx m4 make ncftp nmap openssl perl perl-modules unzip zip zlib1g-dev autoconf automake1.9 libtool bison autotools-dev g++ build-essential

Now we will get Apache and related tools.

.. code-block:: bash

	apt-get -y install apache2 apache2-doc apache2-mpm-prefork apache2-utils apache2-suexec libexpat1 ssl-cert

At this point you may want to install DNS tools.  I am using Dreamhost
to point my domain name at the server and letting the server handle the
file part.  I won’t go in-depth on how to get DNS installed, but if you
want the packages, you can install:

.. code-block:: bash

	apt-get -y install bind9 dnsutils

Now that we have Apache, we can install the “P” in LAMP server (PHP,
Python or Perl, depending on preference.  PHP in this example).

.. code-block:: bash

	apt-get -y install libapache2-mod-php5 libapache2-mod-ruby libapache2-mod-python php5 php5-common php5-curl php5-dev php5-gd php5-idn php-pear php5-imagick php5-imap php5-mcrypt php5-memcache php5-mhash php5-ming php5-mysql php5-pspell php5-recode php5-snmp php5-sqlite php5-tidy php5-xmlrpc php5-xsl

We also need to get MySQL installed, however at the time of this
writing, doing a manual install came up with a lot of errors, and
rolling back to the previous version proved to have issues also, so I
let MindTouch install it as a dependency and configure it. Next up, we
need to keep the clock in sync with the world.

.. code-block:: bash

	apt-get -y install ntp ntpdate

For security reasons, we should install tools to analyze our log files.

.. code-block:: bash

	apt-get -y install webalizer vlogger

I removed AppArmor, only to reinstall it later.  Originally ISPConfig
was going to be a part of this server, but it required far too many
extra packages, so I’m just going to custom write something. You can
probably skip this part, and actually I would highly recommend that.

.. code-block:: bash

	/etc/init.d/apparmor stop
	update-rc.d -f apparmor remove
	apt-get -y remove apparmor apparmor-utils

Now let’s get down to the MindTouch install.  First we need to install
PrinceXML (to convert pages to PDF documents).

.. code-block:: bash

	cd /root
	wget http://www.princexml.com/download/prince\_6.0r8-1\_i386.deb
	dpkg -i /root/prince\_6.0r8-1\_i386.deb
	rm /root/prince\_6.0r8-1\_i386.deb

Before the final MindTouch (called dekiwiki) install, we are going to
install all the recommend packages, and fix up any missing dependencies.

.. code-block:: bash

	apt-get -y install imagemagick mono-runtime libmono-system-web2.0-cil curl php-pear php5-curl php5-gd html2ps html2text poppler-utils wv gs tidy links msttcorefonts cabextract aspell aspell-en
	apt-get -y -f –force-yes install
	apt-get -y install mono-devel
	apt-get –force-yes -y install dekiwiki

We are going to install the Mozilla certificates next.  This will let
Mono (the underlying architecture in MindTouch) to trust the same set of
security certificates that a Mozilla browser does (like Firefox).

.. code-block:: bash

	su mozroots
    mozroots –import –sync
    exit

There is a slight discrepancy between how MindTouch and Ubuntu treat
Ruby files, so we fix this error with this command:

.. code-block:: bash

	sed -ie ‘s\_application/x-ruby\_#application/x-ruby\_g’ /etc/mime.types

To get MindTouch to actually get run by Apache, we need to enable the
required Apache modules, and then enable the MindTouch site. After that,
we restart Apache for the changes to take effect.

.. code-block:: bash

	a2enmod suexec rewrite ssl actions include proxy proxy\_http
	a2ensite dekiwiki
	a2dissite default
	/etc/init.d/apache2 restart

Now we are going to run a few commands to copy over the configuration
files to the EBS volume, and then make symbolic links back, so that we
don’t have to modify any configuration files.

.. code-block:: bash

    ##Move everything over to EBS, starting with web dir
	mkdir /ebs/etc
	if [ $INSTALL = "yes" ]; then
	mv /var/www /ebs
	else
	rm -r /var/www
	fi
	ln –symbolic /ebs/www /var/www

    ##Move apache
	/etc/init.d/apache2 stop
	if [ $INSTALL = "yes" ]; then
	mv /etc/apache2 /ebs
	else
	rm -r /etc/apache2
	fi
	ln –symbolic /ebs/apache2 /etc/apache2
	/etc/init.d/apache2 start

    #Move mime types definition
	if [ $INSTALL = "yes" ]; then
	mv /etc/mime.types /ebs/etc
	else
	rm -r /etc/mime.types
	fi
	ln –symbolic /ebs/etc/mime.types /etc/mime.types

    #Move mysql DBs and restart
	stop mysql
	if [ $INSTALL = "yes" ]; then
	mv /var/lib/mysql /ebs
	else
	rm -r /var/lib/mysql
	fi
	ln –symbolic /ebs/mysql /var/lib/mysql
	start mysql

    #Move deki and restart
	/etc/init.d/dekiwiki stop
	if [ $INSTALL = "yes" ]; then
	mv /etc/dekiwiki /ebs
	else
	rm -r /etc/dekiwiki
	fi
	ln –symbolic /ebs/dekiwiki /etc/dekiwiki
	

And that should be it! Navigate to http://DNS\_NAME/ and you should
see the MindTouch configuration page! Follow the instructions on the
MindTouch setup page to get your install finished.  To find your
DNS\_NAME, open up the AWS Management Console, and go to Instances.
Click on the instance you launched, and the bottom half of the screen
displays data about the instance.  Replace DNS\_NAME with the Public DNS
field.
If you want to have all this scripted, download one of the following
scripts.  Please read through and understand the scripts (you always
should understand what you’re going to run on your server). There’s also
a lot of commented out code, that you could enable to  Once you download
it, run the following commands to make the script executable and then
execute the script.

.. code-block:: bash

	sudo chmod +x SCRIPT\_NAME.sh
	sudo sh ./SCRIPT\_NAME.sh

The scripts will run on either an EC2 server or a normal server.  Make
sure to set the INSTALL option to the appropriate value (yes or no) for
EC2 servers.

.. _Dreamhost: http://www.dreamhost.com/r.cgi?482511
.. _FLOSS Weekly: http://twit.tv/FLOSS
.. _Amazon’s Elastic Compute Cloud: http://aws.amazon.com/ec2
.. _Elastic Block Store: http://aws.amazon.com/ebs
.. _good time to start: http://awsmedia.s3.amazonaws.com/btn_signup_now.gif
.. _management console: https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/
.. _Alestic.com: http://alestic.com/
