Feature Showdown: iOS 5, iCloud and Lion vs Android and Google
##############################################################
:date: 2011-06-06 21:43
:author: Josh
:category: Articles
:slug: feature-showdown-ios-5-icloud-and-lion-vs-android-and-google

.. raw:: html

   <div>

After watching the live blog of Apple's WWDC, I was at the same time
happy for Apple developers, and dismayed for Android and Google users.
It seemed Apple was playing catch up to Google, giving Google little
left to do to provide the same or better services in its next OS version
and their cloud tools. While iOS5 is a great competitor to Gingerbread
on phones and Honeycomb on tablets, Ice Cream Sandwich is expected out
only a few months after iOS5 becomes publicly available, and is expected
to dramatically improve both the phone and tablet OS's. I enjoy the
battles between iOS and Android, because they make both platforms
better. I don't think Google will spend too much time catching up in the
few areas iOS 5 is better than Gingerbread/Honeycomb. Here's a rundown
of the new features in OSX, iOS, and iCloud, compared to Google's
offerings.\ |image0|\ 

OSX Lion
--------

Features 1 through 6 are very OS-centric, so we're going to ignore them,
as there's no real comparison to a Google product, other than Chrome OS,
which really is just a browser, not a multitasking machine. However,
once we get to feature 7, we start seeing comparisons.

Autosave
~~~~~~~~

Autosave will automatically be saving your text documents as you write
them. Hasn't Office had nearly the same feature for years? And I know
Google Docs does, as it almost always says "Saved seconds ago". Nothing
impressive here. Moving along..

Versions
~~~~~~~~

Versions will allow you to revert to previous versions, or combine parts
from a previous revision with this revision. I've never used this
feature on Office, but I believe it is there (correct me if I'm wrong)
if you are using collaboration, and I certainly use this all the time on
Google Docs (go to File -> See Revision History). Still, this is
something I think Mac users rightfully expect, and is the evolution of
Time Capsule technology.

Airdrop
~~~~~~~

Share a document! You could certainly share a document in Office, but it
usually involved email. Airdrop will automatically find people using,
presumably, your contacts. This is a standard, and one of the most
useful, features of all of Google Docs. Not to mention, when you share a
Doc in Google Docs, you also get in-Doc chatting, and watch as your
collaborators type (thank you Google Wave!).

Mail
~~~~

I know some people still use desktop mail clients. My first account was
on AOL, then Hotmail, then GMail shortly after they released the invite
only beta. I don't see the appeal. Honestly, I thought the reason for a
desktop mail client was because it was more powerful than a web client.
It certainly looks better than GMail. However, the new features like
search have been a central part of GMail since inception. Conversation
view is similar to GMail's but does look a bit better. Auto-completion
also is added, and looked less intelligent compared to the GMail
version. Mail still has all the shortcomings of a desktop client, such
as not being available everywhere, with all data backed up and spread
across the cloud.

iOS 5
-----

Notifications
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

They might as well have just converted Android's Java code directly to
Objective C for this "new" feature. It even looks the same. Aren't they
suing Google manufacturers over stuff like this?

News Stand
~~~~~~~~~~

Looks like the love child of iBooks and Google Reader. I don't generally
get e-magazines, so I can't tell you if there's any real advantage here,
other than getting new issues automatically, like RSS always has. Looks
gorgeous though.

Twitter Integration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This is a toss up. Android has provided integration to anyone who wanted
to provide it, by simply registering with the "Share" menu. However, I'd
assume the tight, OS level integration has some advantages. It comes
down to personal choice whether you want more options or better
integration. I'll stick with Android, and my ability to share with
Facebook, Picasa, Dropbox, etc.

Tabbed Safari
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

I can't believe this wasn't in the first version, honestly. It is in the
desktop version, and makes sense for the iPad. Honeycomb had this on day
one.

Reminders
~~~~~~~~~

Much like Twitter integration, this is a toss up over tighter
integration vs. choice. Reminders gives you a standard task list for the
OS. I enjoy using Google Tasks, as it shows up in my GMail, calendar,
and my tasks widget/app on Android. I think Reminders is a good idea,
but the lack of openness and accessibility outside iOS severely limits
its usefulness to "call wife when I leave" and "get milk later", rather
than a full list of things I'd like to get done in the next few weeks,
months, or years.

Camera on Lock Screen and Photo Editing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This one definitely goes to Apple. I have a camera slider on my lock
screen, courtesy of Widget Locker, but it merely opens the app so I can
take a picture, rather than just providing a way take a picture from the
lock screen. I can imagine there will be a lot more pocket pictures
though! Also, iOS now has photo editing integrated into the OS. Once
again, the winner is decided by whether you want tight integration or to
pick from the long list of existing editers.

Mail
~~~~

Visually, I thought this was GMail for Honeycomb. However, Apple does
add in rich text formatting (which I've never used), and SMIME support
for enterprise (something both GMail and the clients could really use).
Functionality looks pretty good on iOS.

iPad Thumb Keyboard
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After using my Galaxy Tab 10.1 for a bit, I had to find a new keyboard.
The aptly named Thumb Keyboard is a replacement keyboard, much like you
can replace the stock keyboard with Swype. It moves the important
letters to the edge of the screen to facilitate typing while holding the
tablet. Unfortunately, Apple doesn't allow alternate keyboards, so if
you want something else, better petition Steve Jobs.

PC Free
~~~~~~~

Probably one of the most annoying features of iOS devices was having to
plug them in for syncing and upgrades. No more! It has to be mentioned
that Android has had this since day 1, and I only plug in my phone to
root it and occasionally sync music, though those days are gone due to
Google Music.

Game Center
~~~~~~~~~~~

Apple gets a big thumbs up for this. Game Center allows you to game with
friends and get a social spin on gaming. Great stuff, and rumors
something similar may be on the way to Android. Both OS's have games
with private multiplayer similar to this, but not system wide like Game
Center.

iMessage
~~~~~~~~

Interesting combo of Blackberry Messenger (BBM) and texting. Apple wins
out over Google Talk because it has photo and video sharing, and
delivery/read receipts like BBM. On the other hand, Google Talk doesn't
have photo/video sharing (which can be done via email, MMS, etc) or
delivery/read receipts. It does have video chat as of Android 2.3.4 and
up (like Facetime), which is awesome. Both have push notifications for
less battery usage and great speeds. Google Chat is available as a
desktop client, in GMail, and can add people on AIM, making it more open
and far more useful in my opinion. I'd hate to only be able to talk to
people with a certain phone OS.

iCloud
------

Contacts, Calendar, Mail
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Google Contacts, Google Calendar, GMail are about the same, but have
been around for quite some time, and sync with Android in a glorious
fashion.

App Store
~~~~~~~~~

On both OS's, all purchased apps are available on all device with that
OS. However, Android Market has a very helpful web interface, which the
App Store could use.

Books
~~~~~

Synced across devices, just like Google Books/Google Market/Kindle (on
both OS's). Nothing amazing..

Backup
~~~~~~

Backup will backup apps and user data. Google introduced an API doing
the same in Android 2.2, though it seems the tight integration in iOS is
better and more helpful.

Pages, Numbers, Keynote
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Basically, Google Docs, Spreadsheets, and Presentation.

Photo Stream
~~~~~~~~~~~~

A winner for iOS! Take your pictures, and they are uploaded to the cloud
for 30 days, and synced to all devices. Certainly appealing and helpful!
Hopefully coming to Android soon!

Music
~~~~~

Apple's iCloud Music was one of the most anticipated announcements of
the keynote. iCloud and Google Music are on different levels though,
since Google Music allows streaming, which isn't available on iOS. On
the other hand, iOS allows you to buy music directly from them without
lengthy upload times.  Apple also allows you to scan your non-iTunes
music to get it uploaded with a service called iTunes Match, with 5GB of
storage costing $25/year. Google Music is free for now (and will likely
remain free for most libraries, knowing Google). The two big differences
are uploads and streaming. To get any music to Google Music, you upload
your own files, which can (and did for about 2,000 songs for me) take a
long time. Comparatively, if you buy the extra iTunes Match service, it
will scan your music, and if it finds a copy, it will provide a high
quality audio version of that song to all your devices. For purchased
songs, they will be synced between all your devices. Google provides all
of its music via streaming, with the ability to "pin" items to your
devices, to make them available offline. Here's the issue: if you have
more music than space on a device (like the 100GB of music I have vs my
8GB phone or even 32GB tablet), Google Music will let me stream all of
it, and store only what I really want offline. It is unclear how Apple
will handle this, but based on the platform as it stands, you'll just
have to pick and choose which devices gets which music. It is also
unclear if you will be able to stream those songs to a computer without
your iTunes account, whereas Google Music just streams via a website on
any computer. You can't choose which is better until Apple explains how
it will deal with this, and how much Google will charge (if anything).
Both are compelling, and I love Google Music so far and use it every
day.

What Android Has Over iOS
-------------------------

One of my favorite features that was announced for Android Honeycomb and
Ice Cream Sandwich is USB host mode. Your phone can be a host to any USB
device, like your camera, a flash drive, external hard drive, or even a
keyboard and mouse. This really changes how you sync things to your
phone, and a keyboard and mouse plus a tablet opens up unlimited
possibilities. Android also showed off some cool things at Google I/O,
such as the Hardware Development Kit, allowing Android to interface with
custom built hardware or even robots.

I know Apple is going for supreme simplicity with its launcher, but I
think it is time widgets are introduced. Many daily tasks are preformed
simply in widgets on both my phone and tablet. Weather updates, Google
Analytics for some of my sites, settings control, music controls, and
many others are controlled without finding and opening an app. This is
even more pronounced on my tablet, where I have much more space, and
nicer widgets as of Honeycomb 3.1. I think Apple dropped the ball by
sticking to the boring launcher they have now. Hopefully they fix this
soon.

Conclusion
----------

Overall, I was disappointed by Apple. It wasn't an impressive keynote,
and there isn't a single feature announced that would make me think
twice about switching to OSX/iOS (though I do intend to buy a Macbook
for the nicer hardware and run Linux on it). Maybe I'm just jaded from
Google I/O. Apple didn't give us that "glimpse of the future" that the
Android ADK and Android @Home gave us. Hopefully, when the new Macbook
Airs (fingers crossed) and iPhone 5 are announced, we'll get a better
showing. Competition is vital, and I don't want to see Apple go the way
of Windows Mobile, WebOS, and Blackberry OS.

.. raw:: html

   </div>

.. |image0| image:: http://www.servercobra.com/wp-includes/js/tinymce/plugins/wordpress/img/trans.gif
